Q1) A 24-year-old woman fell from a horse and landed on her outstretched right arm. 
Radiographs reveal an elbow dislocation with a type II coronoid fracture and a 
nonreconstructable comminuted radial head fracture. What is the most appropriate 
management? 
 
A)  Radial head resection, ORIF of the coronoid, and MCL repair 
B)  Radial head resection and LCL repair 
C)  Radial head arthroplasty alone 
D)  Radial head arthroplasty and LCL repair 
E)  Radial head arthroplasty, ORIF of the coronoid and LCL repair 
 
Answer: E. terrible triad injury of the elbow (dislocation + # of the radial head) requiring 
treatment of each injury 
●  Implant arthroplasty for the comminuted radial head 
●  ORIF of coronoid 
●  LCL repair - usually avulsed from the lateral epicondyle 
 
Q2) A 45 year old gentleman complains of elbow pain on movement that’s been progressively 
worsening over the past few months. On examination, you notice tenderness over palpation of 
the elbow, yet a full active and passive range of motion of said joint. The patient has 
reproducible pain with his arm pronated and his middle finger extended against resistance. 
What pathology does this patient likely have? 
 
A)  Osteochondritis dissecans 
B)  Cubitus valgus 
C)  Radial head fracture 
D)  Tennis elbow 
E)  Golfer’s elbow 
 
Answer: D

A patient presents to your clinic complaining of pain over the anterior shoulder. Performing 
a thorough shoulder exam, you find that the patient has reproducible pain with the arm 
supinated, the elbow fully extended, and with manual resistance applied in a downward 
direction. What test is this? 
 
A)  Yergason’s 
B)  Hawkin’s 
C)  Neer’s 
D)  Jobe’s empty can 
E)  Speed’s 

Answer: E
 
Q3) Mr Chua, a 50 year old Chinese male, presents with reduced active and passive range of 
motion of his right shoulder, and is diagnosed with adhesive capsulitis. Which of the following is 
a known risk factor for the development of adhesive capsulitis? 
 
A)  Menopause 
B)  Steroid use 
C)  Diabetes mellitus 
D)  Renal disease 
E)  All of the above

Answer: C


A 63 year old Venezuelan male undergoes a C4-7 posterior fusion and laminectomy 
secondary to spinal cord stenosis. Pre-operative examination reveals neck pain and finger 
clumsiness. On post-op day 1, the gentleman complains of significant weakness raising his left 
arm overhead, and on examination you note a clear sensation deficit over the lateral shoulder. 
What structure is most commonly affected in this procedure? 
 
A)  C4 nerve root 
B)  Suprascapular nerve 
C)  Axillary nerve 
D)  C5 nerve root 
E)  C6 nerve root 
 
 
 Answer: D

 2) In a patient with a stable thoracolumbar burst fracture and no neurologic deficits, operative 
treatment has what long-term outcome when compared to non-operative management? 
 
A)  Improved sagittal balance 
B)  Decreased pain scores 
C)  Improved return-to-work status 
D)  Improved function 
E)  Increased disability and complications 
 
Answer: E. Evidence supports that in patients with stable thoracolumbar burst fractures 
without neurologic deficits, there are no advantages to surgical treatment (Wood et al, 
Gnanenthiran et al, Agus et al

Q1) A 68 year old woman presents to the clinic with severe left hip/groin pain and the inability to 
weight bear on her left leg. You take a detailed history to elicit her risk factors and send for a hip 
X-ray, which yields the following findings. What is the most significant risk factor for this 
pathology? 
 
A)  Previous hip trauma 
B)  20 years of weekly alcohol consumption 
C)  Previous hip radiation  
D)  30 years of traditional chinese medicine (TCM) use 
E)  Primary osteoarthritis  

Ans: D
 
Q2) An 82 year old woman is admitted with a Ficat IV AVN (avascular necrosis) of her right hip, 
with impaired ambulation, pain, and a general inability to weight-bear on the affected side. What 
is the best management for this patient? 
 
A)  Total hip arthroplasty 
B)  Offload affected hip with crutches and physiotherapy 
C)  Bisphosphonates and NSAIDs 
D)  Core decompression  
E)  Rotational osteotomy 

Ans: A
 
Q3) A 34 year old passenger is admitted to the ED after a multiple car collision. After securing 
his airway, breathing and circulation, you note that the patient complains of leg pain, and note 
that his right leg is shortened, lying in adduction, internal rotation and slight flexion. What 
pathology does this patient likely have? 
 
A)  Femoral head fracture 
B)  Shattered pubic symphysis 
C)  Posterior hip dislocation 
D)  Anterior hip dislocation 
E)  Femoral shaft fracture 

Ans: C
 
Q4) The pelvic spur sign on plain radiography is indicative of which following injury? 
 
A)  Transtectal transverse acetabular fracture 
B)  Vertical shear pelvic ring fracture 
C)  Displaced H-type sacral fracture 
D)  Associated both-column acetabular fracture 
E)  Anterior-posterior type III pelvic ring injury  

Ans: D

Q1) When compared with primary arthrodesis for the treatment of ligamentous Lisfranc injuries, 
ORIF has which of the following? 
 
A)  Higher overall cost of treatment 
B)  Higher rate of deep infection 
C)  Improved patient reported outcomes 
D)  Lower implant removal rates 
E)  Lower revision surgery rate  
 
Answer:  A
Lisfranc injury is a TMT #-dislocation with traumatic disruption between the articulation 
of the medial cuneiform and base of the 2nd metatarsal.  
 
ORIF is indicated if (1) evidence of instability (>2mm shift); and (2) bony #-dislocations. 
PA is indicated for (1) purely ligamentous injury, (2) delayed treatment or (3) chronic 
deformity.


